Add EIP-6617: Add a new bit based permission proposal (#6617)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-bit_based_permission.md

---
eip:
title: Bit Based Permission
description: A permission and role system based on bits
author: Chiro (@chiro-hiro), Victor Dusart (@vdusart)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/bit-based-permission/13065
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2023-02-27
---

## Abstract

> This EIP offers a standard for building a bit-based permission and role system. Each permission is represented by a single bit in `uint256` from which we can defined up to `256` permissions and `2²⁵⁶` roles. We are able to specify the importance of permission based on the order of the bits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This EIP offers a standard for building a bit-based permission and role system. Each permission is represented by a single bit. By using an `uint256`, up to $256$ permissions and $2^{256}$ roles can be defined. We are able to specify the importance of permission based on the order of the bits.
```

## Motivation

Currently permission and access control are done using `string` or `keccak256(string)` comparaisons (see [ERC-5982](./eip-5982.md)).

> By using bitwise and bitmask operations to determine access rights, we gain in efficiency, flexibility and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This reads like Rationale.

### Gas cost efficiency

Bitwise operations are very cheap and fast. For example doing an `AND` bitwise operation on a permission bitmak is cheaper than other comparaison.

### Flexibility

With the `256` bits of the `uint256`, we can create up to `256` differents permissions which leads to `2²⁵⁶` unique combinaisons also called roles.
*(A role is a combination of multiple permissions).* All roles don't have to be predefined.

Since permissions are defined as powers of two, we can use the `OR` operator to create new role based on multiple permissions.

### Ordering permissions by importance

We can use the most significant bit to represent the most important permission, the comparison between permissions can then be done easily since they all are `uint256`s.

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

> _Note_ The following specifications use syntax from Solidity `0.8.7` (or above)

Author: @vdusart implemented a library to perform bit wise operators
